There are not much deeper interpreatations about Mr. Robot and I also don't plan to go much into this nor am a movie expert. But at least some points I find important are pointed out below (if not for you then for myself as a note).

Why do most people who write about series write about the storylines directly - who did what, with whom and similar? That's too simple and why don't the readers just watch the series then? Why don't they write about what it means to them? At least it would be more interesting... Just repeating the same what was seen by the eyes and heard by the ears in some text is boring. So fuckin boring, but even that I know the answers to these I still like to ask them.

For me, now, Mr. Robot is a story about enlightenment and that even if someone is enlightened, physicically a body (which one have or not) can be fucked up. Why I think it's like that is the really good representation of how thinking inside goes, how deeper experiences are experienced, the mantra-like reperative dialouges of Elliot, the time confused scenes, the 'strange' dream scenes and so on. The FBI woman's discussions with her AI or Angela's strange trip in the end of SE2 are also not to be missed. These are not the shopping center experiences represented in this show.

I cannot say I cannot see the Hero's Journey in this show. It really looks like Elliot's character is following the steps /*spoiler alert*/ - the call to the adventure is the call to fight his father which he refuses for long, getting some aid from different characters, stepping into the "unknown/darkness" by starting to fight his father, a lot of trials starting Initiation, Angela... and this time, at the end of SE2 my guess is that we are around the Apotheosis if not at the ultimate boon as the realization that the gun really shot him. So, it would be lulz to figure out that every series is one chapter in the Hero's Journey. Of course it's a flexible system, but still...

And a note in the note, that it looks like Fight Club gave some inspiration to Mr.Robot (eg. replacing fighters to hackers or something like that).
"Who am I?" is also very similar story without the deepness.

The "Do you have the time?" question leads to something really interesting I think. If that's how the next season continues that will hit hard.

tl;dr "Even the enlightened ones walk the earth."
